DOCSP-46691: Connection Pools (#157)
mongodb/docs-pymongo: source/connect/connection-pools.txt

   :values: reference

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn about how {+driver-short+} uses connection pools to manage
connections to a MongoDB deployment and how you can configure connection pool settings
in your application.

A connection pool is a cache of open database connections maintained by {+driver-short+}.
When your application requests a connection to MongoDB, {+driver-short+} seamlessly
gets a connection from the pool, performs operations, and returns the connection
to the pool for reuse.

Connection pools help reduce application latency and the number of times new connections
are created by {+driver-short+}.

Configuring Connection Pools
----------------------------

You can specify the following connection pool settings in your ``MongoClient`` object or in
your connection URI:

.. list-table::
   :widths: 30 70
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Setting
     - Description

   * - ``connectTimeoutMS``
     - | Sets the time that {+driver-short+} waits when connecting a new
         socket before timing out.
       | Defaults to ``20000``

   * - ``maxConnecting``

>      - | Sets the maximum number of connections that each pool can have at once.

Reviewer: The maximum number of connections that each pool can _establish concurrently_. If this limit is reached, further requests wait until one of these connections are established or another in use connection is checked back into the pool.

       | Defaults to ``2``

   * - ``maxIdleTimeMS``
     - | Sets the maximum time that a connection can remain idle in the pool.
       | Defaults to ``None`` (no limit)

   * - ``maxPoolSize``
     - | Sets the maximum number of concurrent connections that the pool will maintain.

>          If the maximum pool size is reached, further requests will wait until a connection

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
         If the maximum pool size is reached, further requests wait until a connection
```

         becomes available.
       | Defaults to ``100``

   * - ``minPoolSize``

>      - | Sets the minimum number of concurrent connections that the pool will maintain. If

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - | Sets the minimum number of concurrent connections that the connection pool maintains. If
```

         the number of open connections falls below this value due to network errors,

>          {+driver-short+} will attempt to create new connections to maintain this minimum.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
         {+driver-short+} attempts to create new connections to maintain this minimum.
```

       | Defaults to ``0``

   * - ``socketTimeoutMS``
     - | Sets the length of time that {+driver-short+} waits for a response from the server
         before timing out.
       | Defaults to ``None`` (no timeout)

   * - ``waitQueueTimeoutMS``

>      - | Sets how long a thread will wait for a connection to become available in the pool
>          before timing out.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - | Sets how long a thread waits for a connection to become available in the connection pool
         before timing out.
```

       | Defaults to ``None`` (no timeout)

> The following code creates a client with a connection pool size of 50 by using the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following code creates a client with a maximum connection pool size of ``50`` by using the
```
